# Random Repelling Walks on Graphs

 This program simulates the `n` particle's repelling random walks on
arbitrary connected graphs. In this model, each particle has higher
probability to visit the vertices which have been less visited by the
other particles. Jun (2014) proved that two particles has small joint
support if the repulsion is strong enough in a complete graph
[Jun Chen, "Two particle's repelling random walks on the complete
graph," Eletron. J. Probab. *19* (113), 1--17, 2014].

## Description

The computation is decomposed in three actions as suggested by
Dijkstra (1972) [E. W. Dijkstra, "Structured Programming", 1972]:


````
{input,walks,output}
````

There are also [wrappers](src/wrapper.c) subroutines to help in the
use of subroutines from C standard library. They provide an uniform
mechanism to check errors or call a second subroutine but the
additional computation is minimal.

### Input

The program [input](src/input.c) is a graph described inside a file in
a simplified Pajek-like format. Some flags may be passed to alter the
program behavior. From the description, a graph structure is created
where the vertices are used as points to be visited by the walkers and
the edges are path among these points.

### Walks

The objects that perform the [walks](src/walk.c) are named walkers.
The vertices are visited by walkers that chooses the next vertex to be
visited according to the number of other walkers visits. Each walker
is repelled by others, that is the next vertex to be visited has
probability inversely proportional to the number of visits of the
other walkers in it. Self-loops are created by default because the
vertex can stay at the same place to the next interaction.

### Output

The program [output](src/output.c) is the number of visits
per time of each vertex. A file with R commands to plot the
visits per time is written.


## Downloading

The project can be downloaded using `git` as follows:

````
$ git clone https://github.com/uspgraphbase/rrwg.git
$ cd rrwg
````

## Program

The program is compiled with the command:

````
$ make rrwg
````

## Manual

There is a [man page](rrwg.md) that can be generated by using [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/)
with the command:

````
$ make man
````

## Installing

To install the program and the man page in the system path, just run:

````
$ make
$ sudo make install
````

## Uninstalling

To uninstall from system path and clear the current directory
from generated files, execute:

````
$ sudo make uninstall
$ make clean
````
